---
title: XPath
author: bro wen
date: 2019-03-31 08:31:44
tags: [XPath, XSLT, Python]
---
## XPath

XPath stands for XML Path Language. It uses a non-XML syntax to provide a flexible way of addressing (pointing to) different parts of an XML document. It can also be used to test addressed nodes within a document to determine whether they match a pattern or not.

XPath is mainly used in XSLT, but can also be used as a much more powerful way of navigating through the DOM of any XML-like language document using XPathExpression, such as HTML and SVG, instead of relying on the Document.getElementById() or ParentNode.querySelectorAll() methods, the Node.childNodes properties, and other DOM Core features.

XPath uses a path notation (as in URLs) for navigating through the hierarchical structure of an XML document. It uses a non-XML syntax so that it can be used in URIs and XML attribute values.

## Location Path Expression

A location path can be absolute or relative.

An absolute location path starts with a slash ( / ) and a relative location path does not. In both cases the location path consists of one or more steps, each separated by a slash:


An absolute location path:

/step/step/...

A relative location path:

step/step/...

Each step is evaluated against the nodes in the current node-set.

A step consists of:

an axis (defines the tree-relationship between the selected nodes and the current node)
a node-test (identifies a node within an axis)
zero or more predicates (to further refine the selected node-set)

The syntax for a location step is:
axisname::nodetest[predicate] 

## XSLT

Extensible Stylesheet Language Transformations (XSLT) is an XML-based language used, in conjunction with specialized processing software, for the transformation of XML documents.

Although the process is referred to as "transformation," the original document is not changed; rather, a new XML document is created based on the content of an existing document. Then, the new document may be serialized (output) by the processor in standard XML syntax or in another format, such as HTML or plain text.

XSLT is most often used to convert data between different XML schemas or to convert XML data into web pages or PDF documents. [one]