---
title: CORS
author: bro wen
date: 2019-03-08 12:45:06
tags: [CORS]
---

# CORS

## What is CORS?

Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) is a mechanism that uses additional HTTP headers to tell a browser to let a web application running at one origin (domain) have permission to access selected resources from a server at a different origin. A web application executes a cross-origin HTTP request when it requests a resource that has a different origin (domain, protocol, and port) than its own origin.

An example of a cross-origin request: The frontend JavaScript code for a web application served from http://domain-a.com uses XMLHttpRequest to make a request for http://api.domain-b.com/data.json.

For security reasons, browsers restrict cross-origin HTTP requests initiated from within scripts. For example, XMLHttpRequest and the Fetch API follow the same-origin policy. This means that a web application using those APIs can only request HTTP resources from the same origin the application was loaded from, unless the response from the other origin includes the right CORS headers.

The CORS mechanism supports secure cross-origin requests and data transfers between browsers and web servers. Modern browsers use CORS in an API container such as XMLHttpRequest or Fetch to help mitigate the risks of cross-origin HTTP requests.
## What is access control?

Access control systems perform authorization identification, authentication, access approval, and accountability of entities through login credentials including passwords, personal identification numbers (PINs), biometric scans, and physical or electronic keys.

Access control is a security technique that can be used to regulate who or what can view or use resources in a computing environment.

Browsers send specific HTTP headers for cross-site requests initiated from within XMLHttpRequest or the Fetch API. It also expects to see specific HTTP headers sent back with cross-site responses. 